---
layout: news
date: "2023-08-28"
slug: "aimc2023"
title: "AIMC 2023"
description: "The International Conference on Aritificial Intelligence and Music Creativity"
featured: true
---

<script>
import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>


<CaptionedImage
src="news/sussex.jpg"
alt="A picture of the Arts A building."
caption="The Arts A building at Sussex."/>

### AIMC 2023

We are running the next **International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Music Creativity** in collaboration with the [Emute Lab](http://www.emutelab.org/) at the University of Sussex.

**31 August - 1 September @ University of Sussex, Brighton, UK**

Check the website here: [AIMC 2023](https://aimc2023.pubpub.org)

The **International Conference on AI and Music Creativity** is an annual conference bringing together a community of people working on the application of AI in musical practice, with topics ranging from performance systems, computational creativity,  machine listening, robotics, sonification, and more.

### **Conference Theme**

The theme of AIMC 2023 is **Intelligent Performance Systems**, where we are interested in how AI is applied in real-time artistic performance. This includes physical musical instruments, music theatre, software, as well as interactive installations. The **programme** includes performances, installations, demo sessions, workshops and academic papers. The conference will be hands-on, performative, experimental and collaborative, opening up opportunities for collaboration and co-playing. 

### **The AIMC Conferences**

All information about the schedule, presenters and open access proceedings can be found here: [International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Music Creativity](https://aimc2023.pubpub.org). If you are interested in participating, the website has information about registration. Some of our talks will be streamed.

For information about previous conferences and open access proceedings, please check the [AIMC website](https://aimusiccreativity.org).

