{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green31\blue35;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue194;
\red146\green26\blue32;\red251\green0\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14118\c16078\c18431;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c80392;
\cssrgb\c64706\c16471\c16471;\cssrgb\c100000\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ---\
layout: news\
date: "2021-10-18\'94\
title: "An Article in \'der\'e6\'f0ir by Iceland University of Arts\'94\
description: "An introduction to the project in Icelandic\'94\
featured: true\
---\
\
Earlier this fall, primary investigator Thor Magnusson, wrote an article for a publication by the Musical Department of the University of Iceland. This publication is called \'der\'e6\'f0ir and the article is written in Icelandic. Thor was asked by editor Atli Ing\'f3lfsson of \'der\'e6\'f0ir to provide him with a page or two about this topic and Thor was unable to find anything in Icelandic so he decided to write a short and interesting article himself.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<CaptionedImage\
  src="stock/thraedir.png\'94\
  alt=\'93A photo of graphics from Thraedir web page. At the top it says Listah\'e1sk\'f3li \'cdslands Iceland University of the Arts and at the bottom it says \'der\'e6\'f0ir. In the background, chaotic threads with motion blur.\'94\
  caption=\'93A screen grab from the Thraedir website.\'94/>
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In short, it\'92s about the baseline of the IIL research questions. The title in English is: Smart Instruments - Understanding 21st Century AI Through Creative Music Technologies. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs30 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<\cf5 a\cf6 \'a0href\cf4 ="
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 https://www.lhi.is/en/node/15311
\f2\fs30 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
">
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Read full article here. 
\f2\fs30 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<\cf5 /a\cf4 >}