---
layout: openlab
edition: 102
theme: "Tristan Zand on Shellreader"
description: "Tristan Zand shares his decades long experimental journey, exploring how working hand-in-hand with the machine is redefining artistic collaboration."
date: "2025-04-04"
highlight_image: "openlabs/Open_lab_102.png"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
src="openlabs/Open_lab_102.png"
alt="Open Lab 102 Poster"
caption=""/>

Tristan Zand on AI.

**Where: University of Iceland, Veröld room VHV-103**

**When: Friday, April 4th, 3-5 pm**

****

Tristan, is a Swiss and San Francisco Bay Area-raised conceptual artist, experimental photographer, videographer, musician, and coder. Active in digital and experimental arts since the 1980s, his work explores the intersection of technology and creativity. Moving between the Bay Area, Iceland, and Switzerland, Tristan continues to push the boundaries of artistic expression through AI-driven projects. 

Tristan discusses generative AI, as the fourth major technological revolution in digital arts, following personal computing, the web, and mobile technology. In his view, each of these shifts has expanded creative possibilities—from generating and replicating digital media to fostering interactive, networked artistic experiences. Now, he argues, generative AI integrates past innovations while introducing a crucial new dimension: autonomy. It enables the creation of self-sustaining artistic agents and infinitely replicable digital identities, fundamentally reshaping artistic production.

His bicephalous professional career as a musician and photographer, but also as a physician in the fields of medical informatics and radiology has naturally brought AI as a convergence for his research and production since the early 2000s. Through this journey, Tristan hopes to entertain and engage you with the story behind AI’s Hit: an album composed, performed, and produced in Reykjavík, released at the end of last year. Along the way, he’ll share his creative process and explore how working hand-in-hand with the machine redefines artistic collaboration.

+++++++

We look forward to seeing you!

Free entry, accessible to all.
