---
layout: openlab
edition: 109
theme: "On the Uncanny, Interspecies Alliances & Haunting Back"
description: ""
date: "2025-09-05"
highlight_image: "openlabs/open_lab_109.jpeg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
src="openlabs/open_lab_109.jpeg"
alt="OpenLab109."
caption=""/>


## 

Friday, September 5th 2025, the Open Lab session will feature three distinct thematic sections in two parts. The first part will be hosted by Ana Marjalizo alongside her PhD Supervisors, Adrien Faure, and Sergio Villanueva (University of Barcelona). Rike Scheffler (Berlin) and Dr. Tiara Roxanne (Berlin) will lead the second half. The first session will cover topics and challenges related to mixed methodologies in academic research. The second session will be a mix between Scheffler’s autoethnographic research around interspecies alliances and Roxanne’s work on indigenous feminist methodologies, anti-colonialism, and haunting back.

** Where: TBA

** When: Friday, September 5th, 3-5 pm **


****

## Part One:
Researchers and artists Ana Marjalizo, Adrien Faure, and Sergio Villanueva from the University of Barcelona will present a seminar and debate that looks at the challenges and opportunities of bringing practice-based doctoral research into academic settings that are usually shaped by social science traditions. While practice-based work is well established in the arts and creative fields, it's still difficult to fit into programs that expect linear research designs, text-heavy dissertations, and conventional ideas of "scientific rigor."
 
## Part two:
Rike Scheﬄer will share insights from her ongoing autoethnographic engagement Lava. Rituale — a sensually immersive triptych comprising a sound & video installation, a poetry collection (kookbooks, 2023), and a concert performance exploring tender, speculative modes of being in planetary and interspecies alliances, as well as critical and respectful collaborations with Iceland’s more-than-human agents like lava rock, moss, Arctic fox, and AI.

Dr. Tiara Roxanne (scholar & artist) will present their work on the technological haunt and create a space for thinking through what it means to haunt back in a world where digital technologies and the use of AI systems such as surveillance and datamining practices haunt marginalized communities especially, but also everyone. Dr. Roxanne will lead us to questions in working through what it means to haunt back, asking: what are the gestures of haunting back, how can digital technologies be used to haunt back, or can AI be used to haunt back through sonification, for example? 

Together, Scheffler and Roxanne will open space for conversation exploring what it means to make kin across species boundaries, to queer and animalize technology, to create ecologies of listening, and haunt back from an anti-colonial and indigenous perspective. 
##
***
## Bios

Rike Scheffler is a Berlin-based transdisciplinary artist exploring the intersections of language and music. Her work creates spaces for community, possibility, and transformation. She has received numerous grants and fellowships, performed internationally, collaborated with Ólafur Elíasson’s Institute for Spatial Experiments, and presented her work at venues including Neue Nationalgalerie, Hamburger Bahnhof, Louisiana Museum of Modern Art, and Palais de Tokyo.
##
Dr. Tiara Roxanne is a scholar and performance artist whose work rethinks the ethics of AI through an anticolonial, eco-feminist, and cyberfeminist lens. Their research critiques how digital technologies rely on the extraction of resources from Indigenous lands and examines how these infrastructures carry colonial legacies inscribed in land, bodies, and memory. They are the author of the forthcoming book with University of California Press (2026), which develops their concepts of digital attunement and the technological haunt.

Tiara has presented at ARS Electronica (Linz), Images Festival (Toronto), Squeaky Wheel Film and Media Art Center (NY), Trinity Square Video (Toronto),  Leuphana University (Lüneberg), European Media Art Festival (Osnabrück), University of Applied Arts (Vienna),  SOAS (London), SLU (Madrid), Transmediale (Berlin), Duke University (NC), Cambridge University (UK), among others.

##
Ana Marjalizo. FI Joan Oró pre-doctoral researcher at the Faculty of Information and Audiovisual Media at the University of Barcelona. Her line of research focuses on Uncanny and alternative aesthetics in digital music, addressing queer and dissident realities. She is an independent composer and producer.

Adrien Faure-Carvallo. Associate professor at the Faculty of Information and Audiovisual Media at the University of Barcelona. His research focuses on musical and sound experiences in the fields of communication, education, audiovisual media, and sound technologies.

Sergio Villanueva Baselga. Associate professor at the Faculty of Information and Audiovisual Media at the University of Barcelona. His research critically examines the media and cinema, understanding them as articulators, creators and structural constituents of the narratives that shape different health stigmas and, in general, collective identities.

We look forward to seeing you!

Free entry, accessible to all.
