---
layout: openlab
edition: 111
theme: "The uncanny and the in between"
description: "Ana Martínez Marjalizo and Gon Muruaga"
date: "2025-09-19"
highlight_image: "openlabs/open_lab_111.jpeg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
src="openlabs/open_lab_111.jpeg"
alt="OpenLab111."
caption=""/>


## 

The Intelligent Instruments Lab is excited to welcome Ana Martínez Marjalizo and Gonzalo Muruaga, who will be presenting at our next Open Lab event.

** Where: University of Iceland. Veröld, room VHV-103 **

** When: Friday, September 19th, 3:00 – 5:00 PM **


****

## On Conceptualizing and Composing an Uncanny Album & Creating Between Tools and Art

### Part 1: Ana
After two years of academic research in philosophy and music, Ana Marjalizo has spent this last three months as a research fellow at the Intelligent Instruments Lab. During her residency, she drew inspiration from various concepts and instruments encountered at the lab, which led her to compose several pieces and conceptualise an album rooted in her research theme: The Uncanny aesthetic in digital music.


In this Open Lab session, Ana will explore the process of translating a theoretical academic framework into a musical project. She will delve into her compositional approach, both instrumentally and lyrically, and offer an in-depth analysis of two songs created during her time at the lab—each inspired by specific instruments she discovered there: Stacco and a multichannel guitar.

### Part 2: Gon
Currently visiting Iceland for a residency at SIM, Gon combines his experience in sound design with years of working on a team developing audio tools at Neural DSP. His work often moves between creating the tools and using them, and he has been exploring how those two roles can influence each other.


For this Open Lab session, Gon will talk about a complex tool development and making music with it. He will share how ideas from his design work find their way into his artistic projects, and how creative needs can spark new development directions. He will also reflect on his experience of shifting between being an artist and being a tool designer, and finding where those roles meet.



****

We look forward to seeing you!

Free entry, accessible to all.
