---
layout: openlab
edition: 112
theme: "Decentered Music: on Electronic Performativity, and Co-creation with Artificial Agents"
description: "Christian Høgh and Vincenzo Madaghiele"
date: "2025-09-26"
highlight_image: "openlabs/Open_lab_112.png"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
src="openlabs/Open_lab_112.png"
alt="OpenLab112."
caption=""/>


## 

The Intelligent Instruments Lab is excited to welcome Christian Høgh and Vincenzo Madaghiele, who will be presenting at our next Open Lab event.

** Where: University of Iceland. Veröld, room TBA **

** When: Friday, September 26th, 3:00 – 5:00 PM **


****

## On Performativity and Co-creation with Artificial Agents

### Part 1: Christian Høgh
Christian Høgh, who currently studies at DIEM in Aarhus, has a background as a Danish hip-hop producer and rapper, but now focuses on performative expression in electronic music.

In this Open Lab, Christian will discuss the concept of performative affordance in electronic music—how electronic sounds can be shaped and interpreted through movement and gestures. He explores how fantasies can be made audible through sound design and argues that postmodern performance practices should challenge traditional notions of instrumentalism and technical skill. Drawing on both his compositional work and performative experiments, he reflects on ways to connect sound and movement, and how he has previously intertwined these practices with live hip-hop concerts.



### Part 2: Vincenzo
Vincenzo Madaghiele is a musician and researcher based in Oslo, Norway. He works on music improvisation with algorithms, combining generative musical processes into autonomous systems with a focus on dynamic and textural relations. His practice involves improvised music, installations, audiovisual and dance performances, frequently collaborating with other live performers. He is currently a doctoral researcher in the department of musicology at the University of Oslo, where he is researching autonomous systems for music co-improvisation. 

In this Open Lab, Vincenzo will discuss music co-creation between humans and autonomous artificial agents in free improvisation. Free improvisation requires listening, reflection, and timely decision-making; while automating some of these aspects can provide new expressive possibilities, it is often difficult to adapt the style of autonomous musical agents to musicians' preferences and specific aesthetic ideas. 
What characteristics should an artificial agent have to complement human creativity in an improvised musical performance? How can autonomous decision-making extend human possibilities in music improvisation?


****

We look forward to seeing you!

Free entry, accessible to all.
