---
layout: openlab
edition: 113
theme: "Three master’s intern researchers will present their work from this summer."
description: "Íris Jacobsen, Magnea Rut Gunnarsdóttir and Einar Hugi Böðvarsson"
date: "2025-10-03"
highlight_image: "openlabs/Open_lab_113.png"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
src="openlabs/Open_lab_113.png"
alt="OpenLab113."
caption=""/>


## 

Three master’s intern researchers will present pieces of their work that was done at the Intelligent Instruments Lab over the summer. With backgrounds in philosophy, music and sociology their work will focus on the interdisciplinary facets of sound, artificial intelligences and theory:
** Where: University of Iceland. Edda, room 208 **

** When: Friday, October 3rd, 3:00 – 5:00 PM **


****


### Part 1: Íris Jacobsen
Íris recently graduated as a Master in Philosophy here at the University of Iceland, in her thesis she explored glaciers as ethical companions, showing how storytelling and process philosophy reveal their role in shaping moral orientations in the Anthropocene. Her work at the lab focused on sonifying glacier data to explore how different modes of data representation can affect human sensibilities in regards to climate change.

### Part 2: Magnea Rut Gunnarsdóttir
Magnea a master’s student in philosophy at University of Iceland, has centered her work on materiality and the evolving relationships we as humans, particularly as posthumans, share with it. In her presentation, she will share part of her research conducted at the lab, exploring playfulness as a vital mode of engagement and meaning making in the posthuman era.


### Part 3: Einar Hugi Böðvarsson
Einar’s Masters thesis in Sociology at UI focused on the social effects generative music from the perspective of Max Weber’s rationalization theory. He will present his work which focuses on the sociology of music through the heuristic of artificially intelligent models.



****
Where: University of Iceland. Edda, room: E-208


We look forward to seeing you!

Free entry, accessible to all.
