---
layout: openlab
edition: 115
theme: "Light 2 sound! / Hear the Light!"
description: "A presentation by Árni Valur & Stefanos Skialivas on light to sound."
date: "2025-11-28"
highlight_image: "openlabs/Open_lab_115.jpeg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
src="openlabs/Open_lab_115.jpeg"
alt="OpenLab115."
caption="Photo by Orange 'Ear"/>


## 

** Where: University of Iceland. Edda, room: E-208 **

** When: Friday, November 28th, 6-8 PM **

A presentation in 3 parts by Árni Valur & Stefanos Skialivas on light to sound.
 

****


### Part 1:   
A brief introduction on the history of light to sound and how its principles are used in modern practical applications.  
### Part 2:   
Examples of tools and technology used to make modulated light audible and how it has been used in artistic practice.  
### Part 3:   
Gesprächskonzert!   


### Bio - Árni Valur Kristinsson: 
Active in several electronic music scenes since the late 90’s through both solo and collaborative projects, Árni Valur’s practice in recent years oscillates between film score composition, experimental video production and improvised performance.  


### Bio - Stefanos Skialivas:
Artist and music technologist based in Reykjavik, working at the intersection of interface development and performance. With a background in engineering mathematics and music technology, he develops DIY interfaces for interaction with neural audio synthesis, feedback systems, and physical modelling. He is currently collaborating as a research assistant with the Intelligent Instrument Lab and the Acute Haptics Lab at the University of Iceland. His project "Optical Scores" is being funded by the Art and Culture Program of Nordic Culture Point.
link: https://www.stefanosskialivas.com/   

****
Where: University of Iceland. Veröld, room: VHV-103  
Time: 6-8 PM  
We look forward to seeing you!  
Free entry, accessible to all.
