---
layout: openlab
edition: 121
theme: "Heart 2 Hands"
description: "With Rili Kajiyama: Heart 2 Hands — An Embodied Resonant System of Pulse, Water, and Gesture"
date: "2026-05-15"
highlight_image: "openlabs/Open_lab_121.png"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
src="openlabs/Open_lab_121.png"
alt="OpenLab121."
caption=""/>



** Where: University of Iceland. Veröld, room VHV-104 **

** When: Friday, May 15th, 3-5 PM **
****

## Heart 2 Hands — An Embodied Resonant System of Pulse, Water, and Gesture
I will present a dual musical instrument developed as part of my exploration of electronic prototyping and embodied interaction during my internship in Hafnarhaus. The project is grounded in my interest in embodied cognition, investigating how sound can emerge from internal signals and physiological states and how musical systems can reflect and transform bodily perception and experience.
The system consists of two interconnected parts: a heart interface worn on the chest that captures and amplifies the performer’s pulse, and a hand-held ceramic structure embedding a MIDI controller coupled with a water-based acoustic system. The pulse is sonified and drives both sound and light, while MIDI-generated audio is transmitted through a transducer into water, where it is physically filtered and transformed. A pump and hydrophone stenghten these dynamics and feed them back into the system.
Together, these elements create a feedback loop between internal states, gesture, and material processes, forming an instrument based on flow, resonance, and transformation. Its organic, sculptural form emphasizes tactility and explores how an instrument can be physically inhabited.
The presentation will include a discussion of the research process, references, and technical development, followed by a live demonstration. I also see it as an opportunity for me to exchange ideas and perspectives with the lab participants.
****

## Bio:
Rili Kajiyama is a Master’s student in Design and Digital Creation at École Estienne (Paris). She is currently undertaking a three-month internship in Iceland, where she is developing her first electronic instrument as a way to explore questions related to embodied cognition, sound, and interactive systems. Her work explores immersive and interactive systems through sound, performance, and narrative. With a background in graphic design, she developed an experimental approach to image-making and a strong sensitivity to visual communication, which now extends into spatial and sonic practices.

****


Where: University of Iceland. Veröld, room VHV-104 
When: Friday, May 15th, 3-5 PM 

We look forward to seeing you!  
Free entry.
