---
layout: openlab
edition: 122
theme: "Colette Aliman"
description: "Sonic Equity: A proposal for multivalent listening within energy transition design processes
"
date: "2026-05-22"
highlight_image: "openlabs/Open_lab_122.png"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
src="openlabs/Open_lab_122.png"
alt="OpenLab122."
caption=""/>



** Where: University of Iceland. Veröld, room VHV-103 **

** When: Friday, May 22nd, 3-5 PM **
****

## Sonic Equity: A proposal for multivalent listening within energy transition design processes
Colette will present recent work across lecture-performance, sound art installation, and workshop facilitation, focused on listening and community experimentation. One strand of this work explores speculative approaches to noise abatement and better planning through wisdom of archaeacoustics and science-fiction sound methods. A separate strand develops participatory methods for co-creating future hospital soundscapes. Together, these projects lead into her current creative research, Sonic Equity, which examines how listening and sonic world-building methodologies can be integrated into the conceptual and practical space of the energy transition. The presentation is designed to encourage discussion and idea exchange among lab participants.
****

## Bio:
Colette Aliman is a creative researcher, field recordist, and sound artist based in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. She is currently a resident at SÍM Residency in Reykjavík, where she is recording contested sites throughout Iceland, planned or in conversation for transition into energy-harvesting or supporting infrastructure. Her practice and methods vary depending on what is needed, from hosting radio shows and lecture performances to serving as a teaching and facilitating listening sessions to sound installations. She is trained as a Deep Listening® facilitator and is a graduate of Tufts University (BFA 2012) and Design Academy Eindhoven (MFA 2019). Her work has been exhibited at Nieuwe Instituut, Z33 Museum, Erasmus MC Hospital, and Carme Contemporary Culture Centre, Valencia. She has performed at venues such as Fiber Festival Amsterdam, iMAL Brussels, Hortus Botanicus, Amsterdam, and Triennale Milan.
****


Where: University of Iceland. Veröld, room VHV-103
When: Friday, May 22nd, 3-5 PM 

We look forward to seeing you!  
Free entry.
