---
layout: openlab
edition: 23
theme: "Xth Sense and Cubing Sound presentations"
description: "Marco Donnarumma and Yichen Wang present their research"
date: "2022-08-19"
---

In this open lab we will have two short presentations, each followed by discussion. Our visiting researcher Marco Donnarumma will presen his work, and we have a visitor from Australia, Yichen Wang, who will present her work on Augmented Reality (AR). The session starts at 3pm in our Lab at Thverholt 11, 4th floor. All welcome!


**Marco Donnarumma**

Marco Donnarumma will introduce the XTH Sense (https://marcodonnarumma.com/works/xth-sense/), a biophysical wearable instrument that amplifies sounds from heart, blood and muscles of a performer’s body and uses them to create music, video or light in real-time. It was created by Donnarumma in 2010 and used ever since in all of his works, ranging from biophysical music concerts, actions art pieces, installations and dance-theater productions.

Several papers on the instrument and the practice of biophysical music can be found at this link: https://marcodonnarumma.com/writings/conference-proceedings/

A performance made exclusively with the XTH Sense can be seen here: https://marcodonnarumma.com/works/ominous/

The XTH Sense is open source and open hardware, meaning that its software, the hardware documentation and tutorials to make and use the instrument are freely downloadable on-line. The XTH Sense is used by creatives ranging from performing artists and musicians, to researchers in physiotherapy and prosthetics, and universities and students in diverse fields.


**Yichen Wang**

Yichen Wang will present her work *Cubing Sound: Exploring Gestural-based New Musical Instrument in Head-mounted Augmented Reality*

Have you ever imagined playing a new musical instrument in head-mounted augmented reality(AR)? How would musical gestures be enabled in this immersive digital environment? Does the sound generation respond well to the hand tracking in the AR headset? Would the "virtuosity", which is often discussed to constitute a great musical performance, still be achievable under the Human-Computing Interaction cloud in the making of digital musical instruments?

In this presentation, Yichen Wang will share her stories, experiences (and pains!) of creating a new digital musical instrument/musical expression in head-mounted AR - as a designer/developer/performer. You can check out her latest work at: https://nime.pubpub.org/pub/w82of2do/release/1, and other sonic installations she explored in head-mounted AR using Microsoft HoloLens: https://yichenwangs.github.io/yichen/work
