---
layout: openlab
edition: 47
theme: "Txalaparta and The Hearty Party"
description: "Karl Jóhann Jóhannsson and Emma Shannon present their latest projects."
date: "2023-03-31"
highlight_image: "openlabs/ol47_hearty.jpg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/ol47_hearty.jpg"
    alt="The Hearty Party by Emma Shannon"
    caption="The Hearty Party by Emma Shannon"/>

# Karl Jóhann Jóhannsson

In anticipation of the [Txalaparta Workshop on April 11th](https://iil.is/news/txalaparta_dynjandi), [Karl Johannsson](https://iil.is/people#karl-jóhann-jóhannsson) will introduce the Intelligent Txalaparta.

Karl is an MSc student in Computer Science at Reykjavík University. For the last few months, he has been teaching a computer to play a Basque collaborative percussion instrument, the txalaparta.

In this week's open lab, Karl will introduce the Intelligent Txalaparta, a creative AI that can play the txalaparta with a human player. He will give an overview of the system and its development, as well as give a live demonstration. A must see for anyone interested in AI in music and Basque instruments!

# Emma Shannon

[Emma Shannon](https://www.instagram.com/winkstex) is a Reykjavik based textile artist and designer who has just completed the Fabricademy course at The Icelandic Textile Center in Blönduós. She will be presenting her final project The Hearty Party - The Hearty Party is a wearable music maker inspired by the beat of the heart. 

This project aims to create a dialogue between wearable tech, parametric design and traditional craft to raise awareness of heart disease in a fun and playful way. She will be talking about the design process from sewing in soft electronics to fish leather and let people have a play with the secret “Elton Mode”.
