---
layout: openlab
edition: 54
theme: "Eleonora Oreggia presents her Rebus instrument"
description: "Playing with the electromagnetic field as a musical instrument"
date: "2023-06-30"
highlight_image: "openlabs/xname.png"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/rebus.png"
    alt="The rebus instrument in between two speakers"
    caption="The rebus instrument"/>


# The Rebus Instrument

<a href="https://xname.cc/rebus ">REBUS</a> is a digital compositional tool and interactive system which radically innovates the 100 years old Theremin technique, generating an electromagnetic field that forms an immaterial interface which can be manipulated by the movement of the hands and the body. It is part of a wider research exploring electromagnetic sensing systems for expressive interaction in electronic music, performance, and time-based media art.  

Originally developed by Eleonora Oreggia as an interdisciplinary PhD at the Antennas & Electromagnetics Group and the Centre for Digital Music funded by Queen Mary University of London and the EPSRC, the instrument is currently the focus of the Electromagnetic Interaction research supported by the Early Career Research Fund at Department of Computing and Department of Music at Goldsmiths, University of London.

REBUS

Website: https://xname.cc/rebus  

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/rebus_waves/  

Github: https://github.com/xname/REBUS  


# Eleonora Oreggia

Eleonora Oreggia, also known as xname, is an Italian artist, writer and researcher based in London. She creates performances and installations using light, sound, dust, and the electromagnetic field. Her music features elements of techno, ambient drone and industrial.

She is the founder of Nebularosa - a label promoting music and musicians who challenge established production practices, the creator of REBUS, a musical instrument which radically innovates the Theremin technique, and the co-leader of Electronic Music, Computing and Technology BMus/BSc at Goldsmiths, University of London.

Her first book, "Il segno audiovisivo. Cinema d'animazione e nuovi linguaggi" (The audiovisual sign. Animated film and new languages), has been published by Meltemi Editore in Milan in 2022.

In 2023 she has been awarded the Early Career Researcher Fund for her research "Electromagnetic Interactions" which she will present during a short residency at the Intelligent Instruments Lab in Reykjavík.

http://xname.cc/home.php


<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/xname.png"
    alt="Eleonora Oreggia performing with her instrument"
    caption="Eleonora Oreggia"/>