---
layout: openlab
edition: 63
theme: "Synthesizers! Derek Holzer and Kari Halldorsson"
description: "Derek Holzer and Kari Halldorsson present research and development"
date: "2023-10-06"
highlight_image: ""
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/holzer.jpg"
    alt="Derek Holzer" 
    caption="Derek Holzer"/>

# Synthesizers in development

In this open lab we will get a visit from two people who are actively developing new synthesizers and doing interesting research in the field.


# Historically Informed Audiovisual Synthesis

Derek Holzer's research examines a series of instruments from the history of audiovisual arts during the 1960's and 70's. These instruments include the Dataton modular sound system (Björn Sandlund, SWE, 1970), the Scanimate (Lee Harrison III, USA, 1969) and Rutt/Etra (Steve Rutt & Bill Etra, USA, 1973) animation computers, the Audio/Video/Laser system (Lowell Cross, Carson Jeffries & David Tudor, USA, 1970), and the Andromatic pattern sequencer (Erkki Kurenniemi, FI, 1969). The aim of this research has been to understand not only how the instrument functions, but also what dreams of the future it was meant to fulfill. Knowing these things, one can begin to reenact aspects and affordances of an instrument through contemporary means and concerns.

Derek Holzer is an audiovisual artist, researcher, lecturer, and electronic instrument creator based in Stockholm. He has performed live, taught workshops and created scores of unique instruments and installations since 2002 across Europe, North and South America, and New Zealand. He is currently a PhD researcher in Media & Interaction Design at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Sweden.





# Love Synthesizers

In 2023 Kári Halldórsson founded the company [LOVE Synthesizers](https://www.lovesynthesizers.com) with funding from the Icelandic Technology Development Fund. The purpose is to design and build hardware synths, focusing on an interesting user experience. The work involves the design of electronic parts for production, the design of a physical product and user interface and experience design. The goal is to have a producible and marketable product at the end of the funded time period, around mid-year 2025.

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/lovesynth.jpg"
    alt="Love Synthesizer" 
    caption="Love Synthesizer"/>

Kári (he/him) is BSc, MSc from Reykjavík University and is currently a lecturer at Reykjavík University teaching Computer Graphics, Data Structures and Programming in C++ as well as facilitating BSc final projects. Kári founded the company LOVE Synthesizers, where he leads the design and production of hardware musical synthesizers, focusing on an engaging user experience. Kári lives in Reykjavík, Iceland with his wife, three children, a few musical instruments and too many houseplants to count.

You can follow tthis session on zoom, by registering [here] https://zoom.us/meeting/register/tJcvcO-rrTIpGdE7xecMWF6hYjZHnslFGJOb.
