---
layout: openlab
edition: 66
theme: "MicroBlocks: Live Visual Programming for Microcontrollers"
description: "Bernat Romagosa & John Maloney present MicroBlocks."
date: "2023-10-27"
highlight_image: "openlabs/microblocks.jpeg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/microblocks.jpeg"
    alt="Bernat Romagosa using MicroBlocks onstage." 
    caption="Bernat Romagosa using MicroBlocks onstage."/>

# MicroBlocks: Live Visual Programming for Microcontrollers

MicroBlocks is an educational visual programming language for microcontrollers. With the addition of a few libraries, the language now features a little framework for live coding music that can easily be picked up by the youngest. Even though MicroBlocks was not originally envisioned for producing music, let alone live music, the real-time nature of the language makes timed processes deterministic enough for this framework to be feasible.

Bernat Romagosa is a software engineer from Barcelona. As part of the SAP Young Thinkers group he contributes to the Snap! programming language and to MicroBlocks. At MicroBlocks, he codes parts of the VM and the standalone IDE, and is also a member of the Project Leadership Committee.

John Maloney is best known as one of the co-creators of Scratch, which he worked on for its first eleven years. He also helped create Squeak Smalltalk, EToys, GP Blocks, and the Morphic UI framework. At MicroBlocks, John is the lead developer for both the virtual machine and the programming environment, as well as a member of the Project Leadership Committee. He holds B.S. and M.S. degrees from MIT and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Washington.

## Links

https://microblocks.fun/

https://twitter.com/microblocksfun

http://romagosa.work/
