---
layout: openlab
edition: 71
theme: "Jack Armitage, Thomas Pausz, MA Design & New Environments x Astrid"
description: "Artificial Life, Haunted Ecologies, and Ocean Stories."
date: "2023-12-01"
highlight_image: "news/mrp.jpg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
    src="news/mrp.jpg"
    alt="Magnetic Resonator Piano by Andrew McPherson" 
    caption="Magnetic Resonator Piano by Andrew McPherson"/>

# Jack Armitage

## Tölvera at Nordic House

[Jack Armitage](https://jackarmitage.com) has lately been working on [Tölvera](https://tolvera.is), a Python library for working with artificial life and self-organising systems in the context of musical performance. 
On 9-10 December, Jack will open an installation at Nordic House called _Strengjavera_, using the [Magnetic Resonator Piano](https://instrumentslab.org/research/mrp.html) with [Tölvera](https://tolvera.is). 
At this Open Lab, Jack will describe the motivation behind [Tölvera](https://tolvera.is), cover installations and concerts where [Tölvera](https://tolvera.is) has so far been used, including a preview of how work on _Strengjavera_ is going. Jack will also give a live demonstration of the current state of the tool, which is soon to be available as a package on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/) where it can be installed with `pip install tolvera`.

## Links
- [IIL News article about Strengjavera](/news/strengjavera-jack-armitage-nordic-house)
- [Tölvera](https://tolvera.is)

<!-- <CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/thomaspausz.jpg"
    alt="" 
    caption="Thomas Pausz"/> -->

# Thomas Pausz: Acoustic Ecologies

## Riverine Synth

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/ol71_0.jpg"
    alt="Riverine Synth" 
    caption="Riverine Synth"/>

As part of his Haunted Ecologies fellowship project at the Stanley Picker Gallery, Thomas Pausz is recording sounds at locations where sewage water enters chalk streams waters in South London. Thomas is collaborating with Nicola Privato at the IIL to train an AI model with this dataset of sewer sounds and create an interactive soundscape, which can be navigated with different tools. The project aim is to allow for a spatial and audio experience of the ecological disturbances created by sewage in riverine ecosystems. The Riverine Synth project will be exhibited in Spring 2024 at the Stanley Picker Gallery in London, as part of Thomas´s Haunted Ecologies solo exhibition.

## Ocean Stories

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/ol71_1.jpg"
    alt="Ocean Stories" 
    caption="Ocean Stories"/>

How can we tell sensory stories about ocean ecology through sound, media and spatial practice? 

In collaboration with Astrid Climate Change and Gagarin interactive, the MA Design & New Environments students at the IUA have engaged with the topics of ocean ecology and acoustic ecologies. They are experimenting with sounds field recording, editing and producing to create multimedia stories. On Friday, students will share their research and works in progress for their upcoming end of term exhibition opening on Dec. 7th at Laugavegur 105.

The Master Design and New Environments at Iceland University of the Arts combines design, science and media approaches to address the entanglements of environments, technology and human activity in Iceland. 


