---
layout: openlab
edition: 72
theme: "Four studies for Halldorophone"
description: "Júlía Mogensen, Eydís Kvaran and Ari Frank Inguson"
date: "2023-12-08"
highlight_image: "stock/halldoro.jpg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

# Halldorophone Studies

The halldorophone is a cello-like feedback instrument created by artist and designer Halldór Úlfarsson. Hallór has developed a new halldorophone. Equipped with an onboard computer and new signal routing options, the new instrument embraces digital manipulations of its feedback loop as a part of its performative identity.

<CaptionedImage
    src="stock/halldoro.jpg"
    alt="A yellow string instrument with feedback abilities" 
    caption="The lab's halldorophone"/>

This Open Lab is the culmination of a study in which four performers with previous experience in halldorophone playing were presented with the new instrument. For each performer, a unique algorithm was implemented on the halldorophone. Incorporating adaptive, self-organising processes, and machine learning architectures, each of these algorithms modulates and complexifies the feedback loop of the instrument in unpredictable ways, inviting of improvisation and real-time interaction. 
In the presence of three of the participants we will present the results of the study, discussing the differences between previous halldorophones and the new instrument, how to perform with digitally augmented and somewhat autonomous feedback instruments, and questions around control, mastery, and agency in machines as well as in humans.

Participants:

Júlía Mogensen

Eydís Kvaran

Ari Frank Inguson

The study is conducted by Adam Pultz—postdoctoral researcher at IIL and feedback enthusiast.
