---
layout: openlab
edition: 75
theme: "Senses, Sculptures and Scents || Earth Dynamical Systems"
description: "Sunna Svavarsdóttir and Björn Erlingsson on artistic and scientific practice."
date: "2024-01-19"
highlight_image: "openlabs/75_sunna_1.jpg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/75_sunna_1.jpg"
    alt="Portrait photo of Sunna Svavarsdóttir" 
    caption="Sunna Svavarsdóttir"/>

# Sunna Svavarsdóttir

Sunna Svavarsdóttir is an artist based in Reykjavík, Iceland. 
In her practice she opens a dialogue on how we navigate the world with our senses; through installations, wearable sculptures or scents.
Her recent works include research regarding kinaesthetic hallucinations and attempts to transfer sound into scents. 

Sunna graduated from ArtScience Interfaculty, Royal Academy of Art & Royal Conservatoire, The Hague in 2019. She has been living and working in Reykjavík since 2021. 

At Open Lab, Sunna will give a brief introduction of her practice and talk about her current projects. 

Links: 
- https://www.sunnasvavars.com
- https://www.instagram.com/sunnasvavars/
- https://artzine.is/?s=sunna+svavarsd%C3%B3ttir

# Björn Erlingsson

Björn Erlingsson is a physical oceanologist working with dynamical systems in the sea around Iceland. He will present ideas on sonification. 

Many Earth Observation data fields have harmonics and rithmic behavior in space and time. Earth Dynamical Systems like atmosphere, ocean and sea ice systems behave in coupled manner exhibiting values of multiple variables across wide range of spatio temporal scales. In this discussion we address the question if set of state and dynamical variables, and their statistical parameters can be assigned sound attributes so that visualization of time evolving data fields of different spatio temporal components that generate set of sounds in a meaningful and consistent manner.


<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/75_sunna_3.jpg"
    alt="‘smell of sleep’ (10 extracted pillow smells) during ‘Osmotopie’ immaterial architectures, a group exhibition" 
    caption="‘smell of sleep’ (10 extracted pillow smells) during ‘Osmotopie’ immaterial architectures, a group exhibition"/>

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/75_sunna_2.jpg"
    alt="weight series" 
    caption="weight series"/>