---
layout: openlab
edition: 77
theme: "Ray Lee and T-Music"
description: "Sound Art and Pattern Intelligence"
date: "2024-02-09"
highlight_image: "openlabs/raylee.jpg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/raylee.jpg"
    alt="A picture of a sound art piece by Ray Lee" 
    caption="A picture of one of Ray Lee's works"/>


# Ray Lee

Ray Lee is an award-winning sound artist, theatre maker and composer. He creates spinning, whirling, and pendulous sound installations and performances that explore “circles of ether,” the invisible forces that surround us. His immersive and mesmerising works such as the world-wide hit Siren, Ethometric Museum and his monumental outdoor works Chorus and Ring Out are a unique synthesis of art forms, both accessible and engaging for a wide audience. His new outdoor work Congregation, for one hundred interactive sonic spheres, was funded by Without Walls and toured throughout the UK in 2019. His music-theatre work Ethometric Museum won him the 2012 British Composer of the Year for Sonic Art. Siren toured the world with significant British Council support. Force Field was awarded an honorary mention in the 2008 Prix Ars Electronica. He is a Professor of Sound Art at Oxford Brookes University and an associate artist of OCM (Oxford Contemporary Music).

Ray will present three of his large scale outdoor kinetic and interactive sound art works: Chorus, Ring Out and Congregation, talking about the strategies he uses to engage the audience in the work. 

Further info here: https://www.sonaesthetica.com 


# T-Music

Gudberg K. Jonsson, PhD, is a Research Scientist, based at the Human Behavior Laboratory, University of Iceland. The laboratory is dedicated to theoretical and methodological development concerning the spatio-temporal organization of behavior and interactions. The focus is on the development and testing of mathematical pattern types for the description and analysis of behavior as a complex process that takes place in real-time and space. A series of related patterns have already been defined and are now called the T-Language or the T-System. 

The presentation will focus on one of those systems, called T-Music. The project aim is to detect temporal patterns in event-based data, ranging from neuronal interaction to seismic activity, and then translating the results into music.


<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/gudberg1.jpg"
    alt="A picture of Gudberg" 
    caption="Gudberg K. Jonsson"/>

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/gudberg2.png"
    alt="T-pattern example" 
    caption="T-pattern example"/>

