---
layout: openlab
edition: 82
theme: "Mechanical percussion within a complex system"
description: "Zeno van der Broek presents his work at the start of his stay at IIL"
date: "2024-05-17"
highlight_image: "openlabs/zeno1.jpg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/zeno1.jpg"
    alt="Mechanical percussion with solenoids" 
    caption="Zeno van den Broek"/>

# Mechanical percussion within a complex system

Where: Veröld - Hús Vigdísar
When: Friday, May 17th at 3pm.

Zeno van den Broek builds and composes interactive audiovisual works. He is currently working with solenoids and algorithm driven robotic percussion systems. At the open lab he will present the current state of the percussion machines and share his thinking about the relation between humans, technology and the (built) environment: building upon his background in architecture and shifting the performative agency from his solo audiovisual performances to musicians, audience and machines. Please drop by to have a woodblock conversation with machines and discuss compositions and algorithms with other humans!

Zeno van den Broek is a dutch composer and artist who will work at the lab for three weeks as part of a two year research period, looking to build valuable new bridges between bits and atoms. Zeno aims to deepen the relationship between the human and the algorithmic, focusing on bringing together musicians and artificial performers on stage. Since the beginning of 2023 he has been working with Percussions de Strasbourg to develop percussion machines which perform together with human performers. At the IIL he will focus on developing a methodology of approaching the composition as a complex and generative system, looking for an entanglement of human and machine performers. He is very interested in getting in touch with Icelandic percussionists and coders to further develop this journey.

Zeno's website: [www.zenovandenbroek.com](www.zenovandenbroek.com)
Instagram: [www.instagram.com/zenovdb](www.instagram.com/zenovdb)

Links: 
- IIL's current location: https://maps.app.goo.gl/VXYYfzR9Apv8mnp98

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/zeno2.jpg"
    alt="Zeno van den Broek" 
    caption="Zeno van den Broek"/>

<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/zeno3.jpg"
    alt="Slagwerk den Haag - MA(N|CHINE)" 
    caption="Slagwerk den Haag - MA(N|CHINE)"/>

