---
layout: openlab
edition: 83
theme: "Live Coding Special, With Guests DJ_Dave & c_robo_ (US)"
description: "Celebrating the International Conference on Live Coding 2024"
date: "2024-06-07"
highlight_image: "news/iclc2024.jpg"
---

<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>

<CaptionedImage
    src="news/iclc2024.jpg"
    alt="Celebrating the International Conference on Live Coding 2024"
    caption="Celebrating the International Conference on Live Coding 2024"/>

# Live Coding Special for ICLC 2024

To celebrate the [International Conference on Live Coding (ICLC) 2024](https://iclc.toplap.org/2024/), we are hosting Iceland's first ever official Satellite Event.
[Visit this page](/news/iclc2024) for our full event programme.

## Time
15:00

## Location
G-139

Gimli

University of Iceland

Sæmundargötu 10

102 Reykjavík

- More info: https://www.hi.is/haskolinn/gimli 
- Google Maps: https://maps.app.goo.gl/yXZy2uMtPFVWkGEX7

## Agenda

- DJ_Dave presents the ICLC 2024 paper "Pop Live Coding Encounters"
- `c_robo_` live coding show and tell
- Panel discussion on live coding in Icelandic education with Professor Helga Rut Gudmundsdottir and Adam Świtała
<!-- - Lil Data Workshop on Live Coding Artificial Life -->

## Pop Live Coding Encounters: Reflections on Practice

Sarah Davis / [DJ_Dave](https://www.instagram.com/dj_dave____), Lil Data / [Jack Armitage](/people#jack-armitage) & Kane West / [Gus Lobban](https://www.instagram.com/gus_bonito) presented their paper at ICLC, and now Sarah will share the paper at Open Lab.

### Abstract

Live coding started as a grassroots computer music rebellion, and has predominantly grown around academic institutional interest and support. As a radical field, it has so far largely circumvented the trappings of the music and academic industries. However, its ever-increasing popularity leads inevitably to the question; what happens when live coding encounters pop music, and vice versa? We provide personal reflections as pop live coding practitioners, from our experiences mainly taking place across the United States and Europe. In doing so, this paper seeks to open up a discourse on pop live coding - live coding of popular music, for a general audience, onstage, in the studio, and online. We discuss the motivations for bringing these worlds together, and how our practices have developed over the years to work with the needs and expectations of non-academic, non-live coding audiences. We also reflect on the tensions and challenges that arise when communicating live coding aesthetics, idioms and values on a larger scale, particularly in social media. We hope that by sharing our experiences, others will be encouraged to push pop live coding further, engage with broader audiences around the world, and contribute to the much-needed discourse around this timely topic.

### Links

- Visit the paper in the [ICLC 2024 programme](https://iclc.toplap.org/2024/program/6.html).
- Read the [full paper on Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/records/11350025)

## `c_robo_` show & tell on laptop-as-instrument

Live coding typically involves a lot of keyboard and mouse inputs that don't do anything interesting. This is bad. This show and tell session will showcase one rather haphazard and bespoke live coding setup aimed at addressing this issue.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tPNngzRLs80" title="c_robo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<!-- ## Lil Data Workshop on Live Coding Artificial Life -->

## Panel discussion on live coding in Icelandic education with Professor Helga Rut Gudmundsdottir and Adam Świtała

After the presentations, we will host a panel discussion with more special guests, [Professor Helga Rut Gudmundsdottir](http://helgarut.hi.is) and [Adam Świtała](https://adamswitala.com/), on the topic of live coding in Icelandic education.

[Dr. Helga Rut Gudmundsdottir](http://helgarut.hi.is) is Professor of Music Education at the University of Iceland, School of Education. She teaches music pedagogy for elementary and middle school as well as courses in early childhood music methods. Her research focuses on musical development in children. She is a board member of the MERYC (European Network for Music Educators and Researchers of Young Children) since 2015 and on the steering committee for the international research project AIRS (Advancing Interdisciplinary Research in Singing) since 2012.
Currently she is lead co-editor for the Routledge Companion on Singing and Education to be published by Routledge in 2019. The Routledge Companion on Singing will be published in three volumes: I Singing and development, II Singing and Education and III Singing and Well-being. The project chief editor for all three volumes is Prof. Annabel Cohen.
Helga has developed her own practice “Tonagull” in early childhood music in Iceland, she runs music courses for families with young children in Iceland since 2004 and published in 2015 an illustrated book of Icelandic songs and rhymes with audio recordings. Tonagull is a research-based practice that gives courses, trains teachers and develops material for teaching music in childhood. Helga is a pioneer for public participatory concerts for families with young children. Through Tonagull, Helga has managed subsidised concerts open to families for free, using both traditional concert venues and other public venues such as museums in connection with family- and children’s festivals in Reykjavik.
Helga’s scholarly work is published in peer reviewed international music journals and with international publishers such as Studentlitteratur, Routledge and Oxford University Press.

[Adam Świtała](https://adamswitala.com/) is a composer, musician, teacher, and researcher. Adjunct Lecturer at the School of Education, University of Iceland. Member of the Advocacy Standing Committee and Music in Schools and Teacher Education (MISTEC) Commissioner of the International Society for Music Education (ISME). 2018-2020 member of the Editorial Board of the ISME/Routledge book series 'Specialist Themes in Music Education'. 2017-2020 Board Member of the Polish Music Council, actively involved in the development of the European Agenda for Music. 2017-2018 President of the Polish Association for Music Education. His professional record includes cooperation with theatre directors, actors, dance and performance artists, more than 30 theatres, educational and art institutions, in several European countries and the USA, including 'Zachęta' National Gallery of Art (Warsaw), HAU Hebbel am Ufer (Berlin), MUCEM (Marseille), and many more. The core of his composer’s work is exploring music as a social practice, a unique way of experiencing time and community, involving human and non-human actors. Co-author of 'The Wall That Unites' – an interactive art installation and performance designed for the main pavilion of the Venice Biennale 2016 during the 'Kid's Carnival' – a special section of the Biennale dedicated to innovative educational projects.

