---
layout: openlab
edition: 95
theme: "Rotating speaker sound spatialisation & Sonification of Electromagnetic 'Wavescapes'"
description: "Tom Manoury presents his latest sound installation involving rotary speakers and Stefanos Skialivas presents his musical practice using electromagnetic field inductors."
date: "2024-12-06"
highlight_image: "openlabs/Open_lab_95.jpg"
---

**Where: Intelligent Instruments Lab** [(google maps)](https://maps.app.goo.gl/JkbEwJhFB8KYCBATA)
**Room - Soon to come**
**When: Friday, December 06, 3-5 pm**
<script>
    import CaptionedImage from "../../components/Images/CaptionedImage.svelte"
</script>


<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/Rotating_Speakers.jpg"
    alt="Rotating Speakers" 
    caption="Rotating Speakers"/>
    
# Tom Manoury - Rotating speaker sound spatialisation

Tom Manoury will talk briefly about his approach to sound design, music and DIY electronics and fabrication. He will present his latest sound installation involving rotary speakers, microcontrollers and a lot of jumper wires. Together we will explore and discuss the design, some of the fun possibilities it offers and enjoy the magic of rotating-speaker sound spatialisation.


<CaptionedImage
    src="openlabs/Tom_Manoury.png"
    alt="Composer Tom Manoury"
    caption="Composer Tom Manoury"/>

# About Tom Manoury

Tom Manoury is a French/Icelandic musician. He grew up in Paris and lived in Brussels before moving to Reykjavik. Mostly self taught, he plays all kinds of wind instruments such as saxophones, euphonium, harmonica and others. He also sings, and has mastered overtone and throat singing. Aside from his career as an instrumentalist and composer, Tom has been doing electronic music and programming for over 20 years, he develops interactive tools and intuitive interfaces for multimedia live performances and realtime processing. Tom occasionally integrates live visuals into to his performances, is into DIY and builds stuff using a variety of materials.

# Stefanos Skialivas - Sonification of Electromagnetic 'Wavescapes'

Stefanos Skialivas will present his musical practice using electromagnetic field inductors (also known as RF chokes or EMF sniffers) to convert electromagnetic fields from various devices—laptops, wireless mice, mobile phones, and more—into sound. Thisalready known method of exploring the electromagnetic scape serves as a way to perceptualize the high complexity of the digital devices that we use in our everyday life.While preserving the raw sound of these devices, he uses the inductors as an interface to explore the audio palette of concatenative and corpus-based synthesis. 


# About Stefanos Skialivas

Stefanos Skialivas is a musician and researcher with interests that include data sonification, sonic exploration of inaudible wavescapes and audio feature extraction. He is working as a research assistant at the Intelligent Instruments Lab withfocus on the documentation and expansion of the Organium. The Organiun is the IIL's library of technical elements, which is a collection of sensors, microprocessors and actuators, that serves as a framework for experimentation with new instrument and installation ideas and is designed as a system for the Experimental Humanities. It’s a modular system which facilitates immediate sketches of musical and interactive ideas, as well as various experimental setups across different scientific fields.



